STEVEN:
We are known for our spirits,
but this is new activity.
For whatever reason, the mirror
freaks a lot of people out.
Do you have something
against women?
[ Door creaks ]
[ Gasps ]
I felt something
pressing on my throat.
Choking you?
Yeah, like trying
to choke me.
Oh, my God.
Is there something in here?
There is something.
♪♪
[ Crows cawing ]
When the dead are forgotten,
they become restless.
Oh, my God!
You just touched me.
What? I did not touch you.
I'm Amy Bruni.
A haunting encounter
redefined my life.
I live with that experience
and seek answers to the unknown.
It says, "I am."
I'm Adam Berry.
At Gettysburg, the shadows
and screams of dead soldiers
turned me
into a supernatural believer.
Oh, my God.
Together, our investigations
bring peace to the living...
You can't scare us,
you can't deter us.
...by giving a voice
to the dead.
I'm going to ask you
one more time.
What is your name?
Because we believe the dead
and the living are all...
kindred spirits.
Kindred spirits.
BERRY:
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania,
site of the Civil War's
bloodiest battle
and where over 5,000 soldiers
lost their lives.
Today, people come to Gettysburg
to relive the past
but also to experience the many
ghosts who inhabit the town.
Many can be found
at the Farnsworth House,
a popular inn built in 1810.
Once occupied by
Confederate soldiers,
it's now a historic landmark
and museum,
attracting both Civil War buffs
and paranormal thrill-seekers.
But in the last three months,
a malevolent presence
seized control,
terrifying the tour guides
and guests,
and they've called Amy and I
to figure out why.
There's been
so much more activity
happening in the past few months
than ever before,
especially in the basement and
attic, and they don't know why.
Well, I mean, obviously,
Gettysburg is haunted.
We've investigated it.
We have verified that.
But this kind of dark haunting
that's happening
at the Farnsworth House
is super-concerning,
especially because
they have so many people
coming in from outside
doing investigations and tours.
Absolutely.
Well, let's go meet
with these guys
and see what
they can tell us.
Yeah.
BRUNI: We're meeting with
a couple of storytellers
who give guided tours
dressed in period clothing.
They claim the recent
paranormal activity
they're experiencing
has become dangerous.
Well, we got here
as quickly as we could.
Sounds like things
have kind of ramped up.
They have, indeed,
especially in the basement.
We're known for about
14 different spirits,
but this is new activity.
I had two gals leave
just the other day.
Yeah. Really?
Oh, really?
And they said,
"We love your tour,
but we got to get
out of here."
And it's from
in the basement?
Yeah.
Why don't we head down there
and take a look
and see what's going on?
Yeah, yeah.
All right, cool.
Okay.
♪♪
You said there were a number
of known entities in the house,
but who do you think
is the new presence?
STEVEN: I think it may be
a curmudgeonly,
older Confederate soldier.
Hmm.
Huh.
So, he tends to not
like women very much.
Okay.
One in particular
was another storyteller.
She looked
a little uncomfortable
and got up and moved
to the other side.
She said, "Something
was pinching my arm."
And she said, "But when I moved,
it didn't quit."
And she pulled up her sleeve
and had pinch marks on her arm.
Has that always been the case,
or is that happening
more often now?
It's happening
more often.
This all sounds
pretty disturbing.
Anything else you can tell us
about what's going on down here?
STEVEN:
Well, we've got a mirror that
seems to have a weird effect.
The mirror has a lot
of different stories.
When they put it
in the cellar,
they'd been having some strange
things show up in the mirror.
Men will look in the mirror, and
it won't be their reflection.
Okay.
People will take photos
and have things show up
in the mirror.
I was just here
a couple weeks ago.
A lady was standing
in front of the mirror,
and her husband was
taking a photograph of her,
and when he showed me
the photo,
she had a black smile
across her face.
Weird. Interesting.
It was very strange.
Many believe mirrors
can be used as a tool
for the deceased to
communicate with the living,
but others believe mirrors
have more sinister powers,
acting as portals
that allow entities
to enter and exit our world.
We'll just have to figure out
where it came from.
It was from
a local estate sale.
BERRY: In Gettysburg?
In Gettysburg.
Okay.
Okay, so when did it
get moved down here?
July-ish?
Like July, as in just
a few months ago?
Of this year, mm-hmm.
Okay.
Activity seems to be happening
around the mirror,
and there's been attacks
against women.
It's possible the two
are connected,
but we really won't know
until we start investigating.
♪♪
BERRY: The Farnsworth activity
isn't limited to the basement.
They're also having problems
in the attic.
BRUNI:
So, what about the activity
up here? What happened?
Ladies pinched, poked,
their hair tugged on.
Mm-hmm.
I've had women up here
who felt like something
was leaning on their back.
Really?
People hearing men talking.
Something leaned up,
and I could, like,
literally feel the breath on
my face, and it said, "Get out."
So, it sounds like another space
where women experience more?
I think so.
Were there Confederate soldiers
stationed up here?
Absolutely.
This is where the sniper
who killed Jennie Wade
was positioned.
BRUNI: Jennie Wade
was a local resident
tragically killed
by a stray bullet
during the Battle of Gettysburg
and the only civilian casualty.
Presumably, the bullet
that killed Jennie
came from this very attic.
That sniper would have been
right at that window.
There's only about a foot
and a half there,
so I imagine he's lying down
with his rifle,
poised, firing up
at the Yankees up the street.
BERRY:
I mean, I feel like there's
a lot of different buildings
in this area
that are connected,
specifically this building
and the Jennie Wade house.
Everything here
is connected.
And whatever is here does seem
like it's getting darker.
Yes.
It's starting to pinch people
and threaten them and --
Pull their hair.
It's getting physical.
Right.
Yeah, it's getting physical.
That's a problem
when you have a place like this
that's kind of
a tourist attraction.
You're kind of like, "Well,
what am I subjecting them to?"
BERRY:
Also, what actually is it?
Is it a soldier,
or is it something
that's a bit more negative?
Is there anybody else
that we could talk to
about the property?
Sure.
I'm sure I can get someone
to come in
and talk to you
about the property.
All right, great.
We'll try to figure out
why things are getting
a little more extreme
around here.
All right.
Thank you, guys.
Thank you.
BRUNI: Kayla put us in touch
with Cindy,
one of the owners
of the Farnsworth House.
We want to see what information
she has regarding the mirror.
♪♪
Everyone seems so interested
in the mirror in the basement.
I do know that,
for whatever reason,
the mirror freaks
a lot of people out.
Okay.
In particular, I have
one storyteller
who really doesn't
like the mirror,
and she is the most bothered
down there by the spirits.
I mean, physically bothered.
She had to leave because
there's a spirit down there
that doesn't want her
down there.
The family who bought the
mirror, who was that, exactly?
The Shultz family.
This is a family-run business.
Okay. And are they
still accessible?
Yes. Yes.
They are?
Well, maybe we can, like,
ask them exactly
if they remember
when they bought it or where.
Yeah.
BRUNI: Before Adam and I do
any research on this mirror
or anything else,
we need to start investigating.
If there's an aggressive entity
here that's targeting women,
we need to stop it
before it gets any worse.
BERRY:
The staff is gone for the night,
leaving us alone with the mirror
and whatever's behind
this dangerous activity.
I think right now,
we just need to
try to get some answers
or some direction.
We're going to start tonight's
investigation in the basement
with a few
different experiments.
So, maybe EVP, spirit box,
flashlights.
Yeah.
Flashlights.
We're setting up flashlights
to see
if any entities
can turn them on and off.
We're also going to do
a spirit box session.
Spirits can use the device
to speak with us.
I will ask questions while Amy
listens for any responses.
As soon as you put
the headphones on your ears,
I'm going to count to 10
and start.
She'll use
noise-canceling headphones
and cover her eyes to increase
her level of concentration.
She can't hear me
while we do the session.
5, 4, 3...
Can you hear me?
...2, 1.
Is there anybody in this room
that would like to speak to us
today through this device?
Can you please
talk to her?
We've been asked to come here
to find out
why the activity is ramping up
and still going on.
Shh.
I'm sorry,
am I being too loud?
Who is in here?
What's your name?
What's your connection
with the building?
Why?
This is our opportunity
to find out who you are.
Can you tell us
who you are?
Can you try to turn on
that flashlight?
Oh!
Yes.
I did.
Something just grabbed me
and, like, yanked me over.
What do you want to tell us
about the mirror?
You never know.
So it's intelligent.
Whatever is here
is intelligent.
Absolutely.
Uh...
BRUNI: Is there something
in here?
There is something.
Right here?
♪♪
BERRY: We're in the basement
of the Farnsworth House
in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.
An unknown spirit is
physically harassing women,
making it unsafe
for visitors.
We're using the spirit box
and flashlights to get answers.
Amy can only hear the messages
coming through the spirit box.
Can you tell us
who you are?
Can you try to turn on
that flashlight?
Oh!
BRUNI: Yes.
I did.
Okay, I saw you
do the blue one.
♪♪
Why do you pick on women?
Who's picking on the women?
Is there something going on
with this mirror?
'Cause people say they see
weird things inside this mirror.
It's great.
What's great?
Come on.
You can talk to us.
Anything else you want to
tell us about the mirror?
Maybe.
Okay.
What do you want to tell us
about the mirror
or about anything
in this building?
You never know.
What are you saying to me?
"You never know" what?
What does that mean?
What the [bleep] does that mean?
Shh.
Ugh!
Listen.
♪♪
Ohh.
[Bleep]
Did it make any sense?
Yeah, there was
a bunch of stuff.
Really?
I said, "Could you twist
the flashlight on?"
And then blue came on,
and then you said, "Yes."
Weird.
Yeah.
I said, "Is there anything else
you want to tell us
about the mirror,"
and you said, "Maybe."
I mean, these are, like,
conversations.
Really?
It's familiar with the activity
in the house,
and it knew what
the flashlights were,
and it turned it on
and said, "Yes."
So it's intelligent.
Whatever is here
is intelligent.
Absolutely.
♪♪
Whatever's in the basement
is smart
and aware
of its surroundings.
That also means
it could have a strategy.
But we're going to move
up to the attic
and see if the activity there
is as strong as the basement.
We'll start off by using
our voice recorder
to see if any spirits
want to communicate.
Well, we're here in the attic
of the Farnsworth House,
and we're looking
for anyone up here
who might want to
have a chat with us.
♪♪
BERRY: During the Civil War,
somebody was up here
and was shooting
out this window.
Do you know
who that is?
♪♪
Do you have something
against women?
♪♪
Are you trying to get
their attention?
♪♪
Well, nothing up here
is talking.
No.
Not at all.
BRUNI: There have been claims
of harassment towards women
in both
the basement and the attic,
but the paranormal responses
we're getting
are all coming
from the basement.
The question is, why?
Is it because of the mirror,
or is it because of something
completely unrelated?
Let's go regroup.
Yeah, and we'll
get a game plan.
Sounds like we're going to have
to work a little harder here.
BERRY: Because the activity
from last night
didn't give us a name
or any new information,
we're going to focus
on the mirror.
The only thing we know is that
it was purchased
at an estate sale
by the owners of the
Farnsworth House, and that's it.
We don't know who the original
owner was or how old it is,
so we're going to meet
with an antique dealer
to see
if he can date the mirror.
We have a mirror
that we would love
for you to look at
to just kind of give us
an idea of time period --
whatever you can tell us.
We will do that.
For sure. It's --
Yeah, let's head this way.
Okay.
♪♪
Here, I'll turn it
this way.
Be very careful.
Got it?
Yeah, that's definitely
modern glass.
Yeah.
Judging from this --
we're going to
look at the screws,
the type of metal
holding it together --
I would think around 1900s,
1910, in that range.
Really?
Mm-hmm.
Just from the frame.
Okay.
The glass is much newer.
My guess is '50s or '60s
for the glass replacement.
But it's
a very ornate frame,
and I strongly suspect it was
originally for a painting.
I think they added
the glass to it later.
Hmm.
I wonder
what the painting was.
This is surprising
but great information.
Usually, spirits in Gettysburg
have some connection
to the battle,
but if this mirror
is the source of the activity
and the frame is from 1910,
then it may have nothing to do
with the Civil War.
Excellent.
Thank you so much.
I hope I was a little bit
of help for you.
Yeah.
That was super-helpful.
Thank you so much.
Thank you very much.
Well,
that was interesting.
I know. 1900s.
I did not expect that.
I thought it was
way newer than that.
The history around the frame
could be pretty interesting,
especially if it was
a painting or a portrait.
Mm-hmm.
I'd love to find out
where it's from,
I mean, because, obviously,
it's after the Civil War.
How often do we hear
about ghosts in Gettysburg
that don't have to do
with the Civil War?
BRUNI: We still have more
research to do on the mirror,
but we need to get back
to investigating.
During our second night,
we're going to try
something unconventional.
We're going to ask
the other ghosts of Gettysburg
to help us solve the case.
Most of the haunted locations
along this kind of main drag
in Gettysburg
are connected in some way.
For example, a sniper
from the Farnsworth House
shot Jennie Wade
in her house.
And before she died, Jennie
used to visit an orphanage,
which was just
across the street.
Adam and I feel like
those connections don't go away
just because, you know,
people pass away.
So, if we go to some of these
other, more notorious haunts
and just ask the entities,
"Hey, is there someone
new in town
that's causing some trouble?"
We'll start with the orphanage
where tour guides Joe and Eric
are meeting us
after hours.
Last time I was
in the orphanage,
I had one of the most terrifying
experiences of my life.
I remember, I was standing here.
We had K-II set up on the floor
all across here,
which should only light up
if something passes over them.
And I saw a shadow figure
run toward me,
and I saw the K-II start
to light up as it ran through.
And something just grabbed me,
like, violently from the side.
It, like, yanked me over.
And that's never happened
to me before or since.
Ever since then,
I've really had an issue
with spirits touching me,
and it's all because
of that experience.
But I am willing to engage
with an entity
if it means we get answers
on who's attacking women
over at the Farnsworth House.
If we have any questions
or whatever, we'll contact you.
But we're going to sit
here for a minute and see
if we can get anything.
Yeah. Thank you, guys.
ERIC: Good luck.
Adam and I are going to
re-create the conditions
of my previous encounter
to engage an entity.
Once we have its attention,
we'll attempt to communicate
and see if it will tell us
about the dark presence
in the Farnsworth House.
We're setting out K-II meters,
which will light up
when anything passes over them.
I'll be running
the digital recorder
to pick up any EVP
or disembodied voices.
And Adam will be using
the SLS camera,
which will map out any figures
that come into frame.
BERRY: This device in my hand
can see you.
You stand over here
near Amy,
I'll be able to pick you up,
okay?
I got you clearly
on the SLS.
Can you say your name
as loudly as possible
in this little red light?
♪♪
What was that?
All three K-IIs
just blew up.
They all just went off.
There's an inn
down the road.
People call it
the Farnsworth House.
And someone there
who wasn't there before.
Have you heard anything
about that?
Uh...
Is there something in here?
There is something.
Where?
Right here?
That's where I got
grabbed last time.
Have you noticed
anyone new hanging around?
♪♪
Can you touch my hand?
That is crazy!
It's touching my hand.
He's touching you
right now.
Because I felt something
on my pinky finger.
Oh, my [bleep]
I have never seen
anything like that.
♪♪
BRUNI:
Adam and I are at the orphanage
using the SLS camera
and digital voice recorder.
We're trying to draw out
any ghosts we can.
Maybe they can help us
figure out
who or what is harassing women
at the 200-year-old
Farnsworth House.
This device in my hand
can see you.
You stand over here
near Amy,
I'll be able
to pick you up, okay?
The SLS camera has two lenses
and infrared light,
which will allow it
to map out figures
not visible to the naked eye.
♪♪
Uh...
Is there something
in here?
There is something.
Where?
We've made contact
with a spirit in the orphanage,
and it's in the exact spot
a shadow figure
grabbed me years ago.
♪♪
Right here?
Uh-huh.
That's where I got
grabbed last time.
It is extremely tall.
♪♪
I'd say 6'5".
Really?
Yeah.
Oh, my [bleep] What?
That is crazy!
Now it's near you, and now
it's reaching towards you.
Hold out
your right hand.
♪♪
It's touching you
right now.
You can touch my hand.
♪♪
It's actually reaching
and touching your forearm
and going back.
It, like, touches you
and leaves you.
Really?
Touches you and leaves you.
A foot taller than you.
♪♪
It's weird, because remember
it was a tall shadow
that everybody saw
run across this room?
Yeah.
So, you're a man, right?
What's your name?
Where are you from?
Are you from Gettysburg?
Or are you
from somewhere else?
He just let go of you
when you said Gettysburg.
Gone.
It's gone?
Oh, my [bleep]
I have never seen
anything like that.
No, no, no.
Wait till you see this footage.
It's going to
blow your mind.
That's so weird.
[ Gasps ]
Touching you.
It, like, holds my hand.
Yeah.
Bizarre.
It just holds your hand,
and then it floats away.
So -- It goes up.
Yeah.
That is so weird.
I'm completely floored.
I can't believe
I touched an apparition
in the very spot a shadow figure
grabbed me years ago.
We successfully
drew out an entity,
but does it have any information
on the activity
at the Farnsworth House?
♪♪
BERRY:
Unfortunately, we're not getting
any verbal communication
from what's here.
Nothing here has seemed
to indicate
that they thought
there was some up-tick
or, like, new entities
around in the neighborhood.
Right.
But we can go over
to Jennie Wade House
and see if anyone there
has anything to say
about new activity.
BRUNI: Jennie Wade was killed
by a stray bullet
during the Battle of Gettysburg
that was fired directly
from the Farnsworth attic.
Supposedly, she was
leaning over,
and the bullet
came through...
From, like, here.
Yeah.
And, literally, like,
she was leaning over,
and it went through --
like, into her back,
all the way up
to her heart.
Because of this
violent connection,
we feel there's a chance
of getting information
on the activity
at the Farnsworth House.
All right, my name's Amy,
and this is Adam.
Hi.
We're trying to help out
some people locally
because they feel like
some folks who are like you
have shown up in town
and aren't as nice.
Have you noticed anyone new
hanging around?
♪♪
They seem to be
in the Farnsworth House.
It's the home where the bullet
was shot from
that struck Jennie.
Where did this new thing come
from -- person, I would say?
Where did they come from?
Listen to this.
"Yes."
Wow.
♪♪
Oh, my [bleep]
You hear it?
I think that this is
one of those cases
where we're in a place
where everybody assumes
every ghost
is from the Civil War,
but a lot of things
have happened since then.
Right. Right.
We had a couple ideas for
how to investigate the mirror.
♪♪
BERRY: An aggressive entity
is attacking visitors and staff
at the historic Farnsworth House
in downtown Gettysburg.
Much of the activity
centers around
a 100-year-old mirror
in the basement.
In a race to find answers,
we've come to
the Jennie Wade House
because we have a theory
the dead can talk to each other,
and we need their help.
"Yes."
Wow.
Did you hear what it said?
Listen.
Oh, my [bleep]
You hear it?
It says "mirror."
A hundred [bleep] percent
it says mirror.
Did they die in Gettysburg?
Oh, my [bleep]
This it totally nuts.
Of all the things to get
on the recorder, it says "Yes."
And then I asked
where did it come from,
thinking maybe Gettysburg.
And it says "mirror,"
plain as day.
We didn't mention mirror.
No, we didn't.
We didn't say it at all.
This could be the first time
a spirit has given us
such a specific
and actionable clue.
But now we have to find out
who owned the mirror
before it was bought
by the Farnsworth House
and if it has anything to do
with why the women there
are being harassed.
♪♪
BRUNI: We went back
to the Farnsworth owners,
looking for more information
on this mirror,
and we learned the mirror
was bought in 1945
from the Collins family farm.
So, I did some research
on the Collins family,
and what I discovered
is pretty explosive.
I need to get back to Adam
to fill him in on what I found.
♪♪
So, the mirror, they believe,
came from an estate sale
that was at Collins Farm.
So, I started doing some digging
on the Collins family.
There were a lot of kids
in that family,
but one of the kids,
Clarence Collins,
he was picked up
for, like,
trafficking women
over state lines
with the purpose of, like,
prostituting them.
Specifically women,
clearly.
Yes, women.
Okay.
And whatever entity is here
isn't very kind to women,
in particular.
Right, exactly.
Exactly.
What he was most notorious for,
though,
was he was involved in a murder
of a Gettysburg tour guide
in the early 1900s.
It's probably one of
the most notorious murders
in Gettysburg history.
He and another gentleman
hired this man for the day.
His partner ended up shooting
the guy in the back of the head
while the guy
was still driving.
Oh, God.
So, the murder happened
October 17, 1918.
Mm-hmm.
They were both executed
in 1921.
Mm-hmm.
So, not long after the crime
was committed.
The crazy thing is,
like I said, that mirror
came from the farm
where this guy grew up.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
And so, I don't know
what portrait
was in that mirror before
and if he has
any attachment to it.
Right, right.
Sure.
I was looking
through pictures,
and he had painted
this beautiful painting
on the back
of the jail cell.
That makes me wonder if maybe
one of his paintings
was actually in that frame
at some point.
There's just way too many
coincidences here,
and I just think -- I think
that this is one of those cases
where we're in a place
where everybody assumes
every ghost
is from the Civil War,
but a lot of things
have happened since then.
Right. Right.
I mean, it's a no-brainer that
we have to search for this guy.
Yeah. Absolutely.
Which makes me wonder if we
should bring Greg and Dana
just because they specialize
in haunted objects.
Absolutely, we should
bring in Greg and Dana.
All right, well,
why don't we call them
and see if they can join us,
and we can get going?
Yep.
♪♪
BERRY:
We've peeled back the layers
on this investigation
and feel we are
so close to solving it.
Tonight Greg and Dana will
help us conduct an experiment
that focuses on the mirror.
We haven't told them
anything about its history,
just that it's
an object of concern.
Thank you, guys,
for getting here so quickly.
Clearly, Gettysburg
is super-haunted.
Mm-hmm.
We've all been here
and had experiences.
But the Farnsworth House
feels like
things have escalated
a bit recently.
And so, we were at
the Jennie Wade House,
and we asked specifically,
"Is there a new entity
around the Farnsworth House?"
And it said, "Yes." And we said,
"Where did it come from?"
And it says, "Mirror."
"Mirror."
We had a couple ideas for
how to investigate the mirror.
We create a traditional
psychomanteum.
A psychomanteum is a way
of contacting the dead
using mirrors that first
originated in Ancient Greece.
You start by staring
into a mirror,
also known as "scrying."
The subject will slip
into a trance-like state,
and the mirror
then produces visions.
If any spirits are attached
to the object,
they should reveal themselves.
So, I'm going to start
setting up the DVR
if you guys want to
set up whatever's in here.
BRUNI:
Since the entity down here
is aggressive toward women,
Dana and I will act as bait,
while Greg and Adam monitor
from the back room.
They would use
a 45-degree angle
so you don't see
your own reflection,
'cause that's pretty
distracting.
BERRY: Oh, amazing.
With this type of experiment,
anything is possible.
We may see visions of
what's attached to the mirror
or whatever else is potentially
lurking in this space.
So, we've turned the mirror
into a classic psychomanteum.
Just pay attention to the things
that you do see in the mirror,
because if they start to relate
to some of the investigations
that you guys have been doing
or the things that have been
happening in the house,
that's important.
We can play
some white noise.
You're not going to want to
necessarily focus on anything
except just gazing,
so that white noise
is going to help ease yourself
into almost a meditative state.
You'll have a single lit candle
sitting right behind you.
There's a psychological aspect
to this.
It really is dependent
as much on you
and what you're giving to it
as it's giving to you.
BRUNI: Dana and I
are completely at the mercy
of whatever is down here,
and I don't know
what it's capable of.
[ Sighs ] Okay.
When you're looking at this,
it all disappears,
and then you start
seeing things.
What is that?
GREG: Yeah, I saw that, too.
That has not been doing that.
I felt something
pressing on my throat.
Like, I felt something --
Choking you.
Yeah, like trying
to choke me.
Yeah.
♪♪
So, we've turned the mirror
into a classic psychomanteum.
DANA:
You're not going to want to
necessarily focus on anything
except just ease yourself
into almost a meditative state.
BRUNI:
We feel the source of aggressive
activity at the Farnsworth House
could be connected
to this antique mirror.
Dana and I are about to
begin an experiment
where we enter a trance
that we hope will reveal
the mirror's secrets.
♪♪
All right, I'm going to
turn on the white noise.
[ White noise playing ]
♪♪
GREG:
Look how black that is. The way
that the mirror is tilted,
they can just barely see
the tips of their toes.
BERRY: Oh, they can't see.
I'm anxious to see
what Dana says because
Dana doesn't know the history
of that mirror like we do
and if she picks up on things
that we haven't told her yet.
Right.
I mean, that's incredible.
Yeah.
Anybody in here with us,
my name is Adam,
and this is Greg.
Our two friends sitting there
pretty much by themselves --
can you get their attention
somehow?
♪♪
Knock on something,
maybe reach out,
see if they can feel you?
♪♪
She's starting to look
really uncomfortable, too --
fidgeting in the seat.
For sure.
♪♪
If you're the one that's down
here that doesn't like women,
they are here to experience
that kind of activity.
BERRY:
Amy and Dana have been staring
into the mirror for 15 minutes.
They can't see their reflection
because of
the mirror's low angle.
By now, they should both be in
some sort of trance-like state.
If they have
a shared experience,
chances are it's connected
to either the room
or the mirror itself.
♪♪
That.
Yeah, I saw that, too.
What is that?
Like, all of a sudden...
It lights right up.
And it hasn't appeared yet.
That's the mirror lit up.
Mnh-mnh.
It has not
been doing that.
♪♪
I mean, I would assume that
the flickering of the candle
would create
something like that.
This is out of the view.
Oh, right.
That's way too high.
That's so crazy.
Greg and I both saw
a quick flash of light
coming from the mirror,
and there is no rational
explanation for what caused it.
♪♪
BRUNI:
Okay, I think I'm done here.
♪♪
Let's go.
Oh.
What do you think?
The weird thing is,
when you're looking at this,
it all disappears.
Mm-hmm.
You don't see any of it.
Mnh-mnh.
You don't see the candlelight.
It is just black
in front of you.
Mm-hmm.
And then you start
seeing things.
Right.
I saw, like, a very, like --
a white mist
coming up the left side.
I watched that
the whole time.
It was like something
was trying to manifest.
That's what it looked like.
And it was on the left side
every time.
Yep.
Every single time.
Left side.
Like, we could see a lot more
than you could see, clearly,
'cause we're in IR, and there
was one point that we both saw
what looked like a white,
misty flash of light
that appeared
in the mirror itself.
♪♪
You know, it can't
be a coincidence
because the four us
experienced the same anomaly.
Let me ask you this
before you continue.
Yes.
Watching you
on the camera...
Yeah.
...there were
a few moments
where you looked like you
got really uncomfortable.
You shifted, and there
was one point where
you touched your neck.
♪♪
I felt something pressing
on my throat, like this.
Like, I felt something --
Choking you.
Yeah, like trying
to choke me.
Yeah.
Oh.
Out of the corner of my eye,
it looked like you put
your hand to your mouth
and then your hand
to your neck.
Oh, my [bleep]
I saw your hands here,
but an arm
went like this to your mouth
and then to your throat.
That was -- It was
in the beginning.
And it was right
at the beginning.
And then I distinctly saw
a male face
with, like,
a white collar.
[ Gasps ] I did, too.
Is something happening
in this space?
Where did they come from?
MAN: Mirror.
And we had not mentioned mirror
in the house.
We had not
talked about it.
If you have an object
that is legitimately haunted,
you have, then, a massive
responsibility to make sure
that the people that come
into contact with it are safe.
♪♪
BRUNI: It's Night 3
at the Farnsworth House.
Dana and I just
slipped into a trance
to make contact
with a dark entity.
We've had
some shared experiences
while staring at the mirror,
but the question remains --
who or what is attached to it?
I distinctly saw
a male face
with, like, a white collar.
[ Gasps ] I did, too.
Really?
Okay, where did you
see the face?
It was, like, in that area.
See, me, too.
It was on the right side,
is where I saw the face.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah. A wider, kind of, like,
cheekbones?
Yes.
I noticed
the shape of the ears
and, like, a big,
square forehead.
If it was our minds
creating a fabrication,
I think that
they'd be very different.
We've be experiencing them
at different times.
I think the fact that we were
seeing the exact same thing
is something
happening in this space.
Greg and Dana
don't know anything
about the origin
of the mirror,
that it came from the home
of Clarence Collins,
a sex trafficker
and convicted killer.
But it's time we tip our hand
and see what kind
of reaction we get.
I want to show you something.
Are you ready?
Mm-hmm.
♪♪
Those wide
kind of cheekbones.
BERRY:
Which face did you see?
This guy.
♪♪
So, what we found out
about the mirror is
it was most likely a frame
of a painting or a portrait,
and it was picked up from this
estate sale at Collins Farm.
Clarence Collins was caught
smuggling women
across state lines
to use as prostitutes.
Get out!
And then he was involved
in this horrible murder
of a local
Gettysburg field tour guide.
So, these pictures were a month
before they were executed.
Clarence was the one that
you both saw in the mirror.
That's him.
BERRY: The fact that both
Amy and Dana identified Collins
leaves little doubt
that he's here.
At this point,
all of our evidence
points directly to him as
the cause of the dark activity
in the basement
at the Farnsworth House.
No one knows about this guy
having any sort of attachment
to this mirror,
except for us.
The seed of him is imprinted
in this,
and this guy's
utilizing this thing
to communicate
with people.
All it takes is
people looking at it,
thinking about it,
and this guy's growing in there.
If you have an object
that is legitimately haunted,
you have, then, a massive
responsibility to make sure
that the people that come
into contact with it are safe.
This is now a massive
responsibility.
Don't give that guy
a window.
No.
Right.
Take it away.
Mm-hmm.
Completely remove it.
Take it away completely.
Because if they don't, that guy
will show up more and more.
Well, hopefully
Cindy listens to us,
but I think that's
what needs to happen.
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
All right, let's head out.
♪♪
BERRY: Now that we know
Clarence Collins
is attached to this mirror
and is haunting the space,
we need to meet with owner Cindy
and tour guide Kayla
to let them know
what needs to be done
in order to rid this location
of this menacing spirit.
BRUNI: Hi, ladies.
Hi.
Hello.
We have a lot of information
to share with you.
We did a lot of research
as far as the mirror.
We weren't specifically,
you know,
focusing on the mirror,
but things led us back to it.
We went over to
the Jennie Wade house
to kind of pick
the spirits' brains.
We said, "Do you know
of anything
that is new
at the Farnsworth House?"
And we got an EVP that said,
"Yes."
And then we said, "Well,
where did they come from?"
I'm thinking, "Did they
come from Gettysburg?
Did they come from...?"
And it literally says, "Mirror."
And we had not mentioned mirror
in the house.
We had not talked about it.
Whoa.
BRUNI: So, this is...
"Yes."
And then we say...
Mm-hmm. "Mirror."
Yeah.
So, it brought us back
over here to be like,
"Okay, well, what's up
with the mirror?"
We found out it came from
the Collins estate.
Right.
Clarence Collins committed
the most notorious murder
in Gettysburg history.
Oh, wow.
What we have found
and what you have found --
women seem to be
the focal point of activity.
Right.
One of the first crimes
he committed
was basically smuggling women
across state lines
for the purpose
of prostituting them.
So we called our friends
Greg and Dana,
who built something called a
psychomanteum out of the mirror.
It's a way to go
into a trance-like state
using a mirror.
During the session, we both
saw a face in the mirror.
I kind of had an idea
of who the face was
because I've been
doing research,
but then we asked Dana,
and she pointed out
Clarence Collins.
When the mirror was moved
to the basement,
investigators came in
and tour groups came in.
They started giving it
more intention.
Many entities manifest because
of the amount of intention
and energy
invested in them.
So, when you have people
coming here every day
looking at that mirror,
it is feeding energy
into that mirror.
What's happened is,
this mirror does have a seed
of something in it.
It has this seed
of Clarence Collins,
and you're watering it
every day.
The idea that people can come
here and focus on this killer
and really just let him
take over this space
is not acceptable,
and people should have every
right to enjoy that space.
So, what does that mean?
We think
you should move it.
Normally, we would not say
get rid of something,
but because this thing does
kind of like to attack women,
that activity's
only going to get worse,
and that's not going to be fun
for people coming here.
Yeah.
So, I hope we were able
to help you.
You have.
We're glad you came.
Absolutely.
Now, listen -- let's go take
the mirror out of the basement.
Into an undisclosed location.
Exactly.
The fact that we were able
to figure out
where the mirror came from,
who it was associated with,
I feel like we were able
to solve this case.
Okay, ready, guys?
Uh-huh, yeah. Ready?
Got it? Okay.
One, two, three.
Careful.
Now it's just a matter of,
"Where's that mirror
going to end up?"
It's really up to the family
and the employees here
to decide what the future
of that mirror is.
And while this haunting cannot
be linked to the battlefield,
it proves once again
that Gettysburg, Pennsylvania,
is a vibrant hot spot
for the paranormal.
♪♪